Draft: Intro (#6)
MiniFate/MiniFate: chapters/01-introduction.md

# Introduction

**MiniFate** is a roleplaying game that allows the players to tell a
collaborative story. It has just enough rules to help the group decide what
happens while staying out of the way of the narrative. It is based on [_Fate

> Core_][fate_core] and [_Fate Accelerated_][fae] by _Evil Hat_.

Reviewer: Feels choppy, and this is the one paragraph that absolutely should not be choppy. But I'd rather see this merged and iterate more later as opposed to holding up the rest of the chapter while we chew on wording

[fate_core]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fate-core/
[fae]: https://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/

## Roleplaying with MiniFate

MiniFate is played with one gamemaster (**GM**) and one or more **players**.
Each player takes on the role of a player character (**PC**) which they create
as the game begins. The GM plays the rest of the world around the PCs,

> including its cast of non-player characters (**NPCs**), who could be anything

Author: > who could be anything...

This is the only "example" sentence in this section. De we want to:

- Remove it? Or
- Add more elsewhere?

from from friendly space pirates to rival adventurers to hideous dungeon
monsters.

Together the group tells the story of the characters scene by scene. The GM
generally opens with a quick description and from there play proceeds
conversationally as the players and GM improvise back and forth. Players speak
as their PCs and describe their actions while the GM illustrates how the world

> responds.

Author: As mentioned in the comment below, we probably need something about OOC here.

<!-- I want to include this out of character part, and I'd like to wrap it in
with "You can use questions to define the world..." But I don't have the right
way to do it yet. 

> Players can also ask questions of the GM or other players about the world
> 
> Players may also ask the GM for specific details to help them immerse themselves in the PCs' surroundings.

-->

> There will come a point in the story where an action has a chance to fail in a
> way that is narratively interesting. That is when the players turn to the
> rules and dice. The rules mediate the divide between player and PC; PC choices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From time to time, players will encounter a situation where a PC's failure adds an interesting twist to the story. That's where the dice come in. Die rolls mediate the divide between player and PC; PC choices
```
Not satisfied with this wording either

are made by the players while the outcome of PC actions are judged by dice.

MiniFate is a social game. As such, the most important element is
communication. The players and the GM are not opponents (even though the PCs
and NPCs may well be enemies). Everyone has the same goals: telling a good
story and having a good time. MiniFate uses **Aspects** to help the players

> communicate their understanding of the world.

Author: This feels like it falls flat, like something more is needed. Maybe even as simple as:

> MiniFate uses **Aspects** to help the players communicate their understanding of the world; we will discuss Aspects in detail shortly.

## Game Materials

> MineFate doesn't require a lot to get started: pens to write with and paper to

Reviewer: Is this paragraph necessary?

record your character on, a set of Fate dice, and some tokens to represent
\keyword{Fate Points}.

Your character sheet is where you record all the information needed to play
MiniFate. It includes your PC's name, Aspects, Skills, Stress Boxes, and
Consequences. The information contained on the sheet is updated as your PC
grows throughout the course of their adventures to reflect who they have

> become. A sample character sheet is included at the end of these rules, but a
> MiniFate PC is simple enough that even a handwritten note card will suffice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
become. A sample character sheet is included at the end of these rules, but a
sheet of paper (or even a notecard) works fine in a pinch.
```

> Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six sided dice marked with "-1" on

Author: Do we mention the d6 alternative here?

> Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six sided dice marked with \die+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fate dice (sometimes called Fudge dice) are six-sided dice marked with \die+
```

> two sides, "0" on two sides, and "+1" on two sides. You will need four of them

Author: Which is best?

> "0"
> '0'
> 0
> `0`

And:

`+1` or `+`?

> on two sides, \die{} on two sides, and \die- on two sides. You will need four
> of them since every roll in MiniFate uses four dice which are added together.
> In order to keep things moving quickly, it is best to have one set of dice for
> each player.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on two sides, \die{} on two sides, and \die- on two sides. Each roll uses four dice. To keep things moving quickly, it's best to have four dice for each player rather than passing them back and forth.
```

> Tokens are useful for keeping track of Fate Points. Although Fate Points can
> be tracked by making tick marks on your character sheet, it is far more
> satisfying to have something physical to pass back and forth. Pokers chips
> work well, but so do glass beads, or even all those polyhedral dice you have
> that you won't need in Fate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you'll need a way to keep track of fate points. It's possible to track them with tick marks on your
character sheet, but much more satisfying to physically pass something back and forth. Poker chips
work well, as do glass beads. You could even use stray polyhedral dice since you won't need them
in MiniFate.
```

- Character creation. Nest aspects and skills under.
- Aspects. They are always true! Short improvised statements.
- Skills. These are the numbers you use to roll dice.

> PCs should be assumed to be competent though, a `Master swordsman` does not

Author: Just dumping this here for now... Needs to move to the aspects section.
